Before we embark on the final exercise,
what I do wanna go ahead and
show you is the fact that
we've built all this stuff.
And then, so in case anyone
hasn't had the chance to use it,
I'm gonna show you how to deploy your app.
Because after all,
once you build something,
it'd be nice to actually deploy it and
share it with people.
So let's go ahead and
do that right now, and
I'll show you how to do that with Netlify.
So none of this has any code.
So, basically, Netlify is a deployment
service similar to I think Vercel,
AWS, Cloud Flare,
there's a bunch of them out there.
I just happen to be showing you Netlify.
And so basically with a free account,
all that we need to do here
is we just add a new site.
So I can import it from any
project from GitHub directly, and
we'll see why this is
important in just a moment.
So basically authorizes it
with my GitHub credentials.
And then, we just did the TypeScript,
let's see,
TypeScript search, search, search.
Maybe I do the and.
There you go, typescript-and-vue-workshop.
And so what it'll do is it'll detect
a few things as far as the owner,
branch to deploy.
And so currently for me, normally your app
is gonna be in your root directory, but
for me, it's currently an app.
And then the build command is
going to be npm run build.
And then after that,
all I do is hit Deploy Site.
Okay, and so what's really cool, I think,
about deployment these days, if anyone's
done any old school deployment, is that a
lot of things have been automated for you.
So because we've hooked it up
directly to our GitHub repo,
we get a lot of basically
benefits out of this.
And so even just for the free project
stuff, it's pretty incredible.
So you can see here that we have
an isolated container that's currently go
ahead and building all the things,
and it's deploying it.
And what's great is that once you're done
with this, you can see that, okay, well,
I can still show you some things
[LAUGH] while this thing is broken.
But because it's actually
hooked up to your GitHub repo,
what it does it means that it
auto tracks in deployments.
So in the instance, for example, let's
say that we wanted to update our tagline.
So if I go to the navbar, for example.
And inside the tagline we, see,
that's currently being imported on app.
So I'm gonna say tagline, it looks
like it got deleted at some point,
so track whatever you want to eat.
And then if I just commit this,
I know why it's broken, okay, that's fine.
Get commit, [SOUND] so
feature a tagline.
So let me check out, I forgot,
it's watching the main branch, so
we're all the way up in 11.
So just to show you that
this works real quick.
Inside of my App.vue, we can go ahead and
just add an h1 to say hello.
So I'm gonna delete this commit later,
so, Git commit,
add title, delete me later, git push.
Okay, so one of the things it does for you
by default is that because it's watching
your main branch, you'll notice that it
automatically picks up that change and
then automatically deploys it.
And what's really nice about
the deployment services these days,
especially for those getting started
with new projects, is that it,
particularly with Netlify,
all of your deploys are atomic.
In other words,
they live independently of one another.
So in the event you
ever need to roll back,
it really is as simple as basically
clicking on the deploy that you want and
basically saying, hey, let's go ahead and
lock it to this particular branch.
And this is huge when it comes to
deployment efforts because you can iterate
a lot faster.
And more importantly, you don't have to
worry that rollbacks are gonna be really
expensive in case something breaks.
But otherwise, just notice that if
you're building any apps, check
out these kind of deployment services
cuz they can do a lot for your workflow.
And when they deploy everything, they all
have their own CDN and all that caching
and stuff is taken care of, which as those
of you who've done that in the past know,
it's really painful to
manage that on your own.
So, that's basically my little pitch,
just something to keep in mind when you're
trying to deploy your next project.
And so a lot of them have really generous
tiers, free tiers, and that kinda stuff.
So be sure to check it out.
And that's not even to talk
about serverless functions,
which is the whole thing of itself, but
I did manage to get the deploy working.
So I thought I might as well show
you kind of what happened and
then that way you can
learn from my mistake.
So we check out the build and
deploy configuration basically for
how it is being built.
Prior to this, actually,
this is what it looked like.
So let me just delete this real quick and
save.
So typically, when you're deploying
your app and it's on the root directory,
it will automatically fetch some
configuration, automatically detect that
you need to deploy the dist folder,
all that fun stuff.
Well, what you might have noticed is
if you're looking at my base right now,
it knows that my base directory is app,
cuz that's what I configured.
But I forgot to tell it that the published
directory is gonna be the dist folder
within the app.
And so basically, once I came in here and
then I dropped in the dist folder,
that's what made everything work, which is
why here now, when I click on the deploy,
you'll see, hey look,
everything works now.
We have our restaurants,
we have our dishes, this is great.
And then now that we have that working,
something that's fun that you might want
to know about is that this
randomly generated hash here,
you can actually customize that.
So for me, I'm just gonna go ahead and
this will be the toeat-mvc-app.
And so if I save that, you'll see
that within a matter of seconds,
it's already been swapped out as
a subdomain, since it's available.
And you can see it actually does work.
And now that can be shared as
the permanent link for the app,
which is actually pretty cool when you
think about the fact that we spend all
this time building and creating things.
I mean, we want an easy way to share it,
right, to share it with the world so
people can use it and do things with it.